# (230) // Software-Design-Document for a Multi-Platform Web App
Operating Platforms assignment based on development of a software design document for a fictional client, The Gaming Room

In this assignment, I pretended to working as a technology consultant for a company called Creative Technology Solutions. A game development company called "The Gaming Room" had developed a game titled "Draw it or Lose it" for Android and wished for us to help develop an executable gaming environment that would allow them to expand to other platforms and allow cross platform compatibility. The game service required that only a single instance of the gameservice class could be running at once, and it must support multiple players with no repeated usernames.

This document was a simulation of developing an official software design document which would outline constraints, expectations, potential avenues of platform development, and recommendations based on the clients desires. Aside from formatting, I feel I did a decent job outlining the various pros/cons of different operating platforms for development based on client and server OS, and did a much more confident job of providing my recommendations for various types of memory, architecture, preferred operating platform, etc for the direction of the application.

If there was one part I wish I could improve on, it's constraints/challenges because I wrestle with pragmatism which can sound pessimistic when an official document must evoke confidence. I also overextended in my assumptions for basic functionality by using a current real world application as a reference. I feel as though I have a better understanding of constraints and expectations now, but still feel as though real world experience will give me a much stronger perspective on potential obstacles in development.

The software application is expected to be run through a browser, and also cross compatible with other browsers, which I took into account in my recommendations. When considering the clients needs, I started small. They wanted a browser based gaming application, so this implies that a basic client server architecture would be most sufficient. I also opened up about the possibility of using cloud based server hosting or cloud based storage to facilitate needs, but with costs and budget not implied, it was merely speculative. It's extremely important to understand the wants and needs of a service in order to maximize efficiency and give an accurate prediction of resource requirement. It goes without saying that the better you understand your task, the less time and energy that is lost in its development.

In development of the software design, I took into account the current architecture and scope of expectations. If this company were designing a game with a strong fanbase and required an extreme amount of allotted resources into server space and memory, I might have approached it differently. Based on how it all started for them, I made a lot of basic assumptions to maximize cost efficiency and simplicity since I am still myself a novice in this field. Like most things in life, I feel that a strong foundation is the most important piece to building something substantial, and believe that both hardware and source code must be definitive before development. A lot of my recommendations tended towards options that allow for flexibility also, since great success may come unexpectedly. 
